So, I'm gonna go inside this Onmounted
because this is what you uses to say, hey,
when this component's kinda
ready to start doing things.
I'm gonna say onSnapshot, I'm going
to pass in that markdown collection.
And then, this is gonna take a callback.
And this right here is what is
referred to as a data snapshot.
And so a data snapshot is not just
your data, it is a bunch of other
important metadata about it and
other helpful information.
We can get the data by
calling snapshot.data and
then it spits out the data from that.
But, we'll see later on as
we get more into FireStore,
there's a whole lot that we can do here.
And so from here, what I wanna do is,
I want to sync this to view state.
So I can say state.converted.
State.converted=data.converted and
state.markdown = data.markdown.
So, whenever something syncs,
it will sync to the state and
then that kinda binds to this UI in here,
I call it firebase.
All right, firestore, okay,
it should be good now, cool.
Now, snapshot.data is not
a function probably because of,
something I'm doing on snapshot.
Let's just drop in a good
old debugger statement.
Snapshot.oh, it's cuz
I'm doing collection.
Yes, so this is a really good point here,
this is something that
you'll run into a lot.
Right here, I'm asking to get all of the
documents within the markdown collection.
And I'm saying, let me get its data.
Well, I have a whole list so technically,
what I would need to do is,
I would need to say .docs.
And then within here I have a whole array
of them, and then I can call each one and
get its data.
I don't want to do that, what I wanna do
is, I wanna get an individual document.
And so to do that, I can come into here,
and I can import a document reference.
So we have a collection reference,
I'm gonna use that to get a document.
I'm gonna say markdowndoc is document
passing the markdowns collection.
And then from here, I can say hey,
what's the ID of the specific one?
We're gonna get more into
managing IDs in a bit, but
let's just get it from the route actually.
So I'm gonna pass it down here and
I can say route.params.id which I
believe it is if I go into main JS.
Yes, this is what we're
capturing the ideas.
And so now whatever the route ideas will
sync up to a document did not pass in
the doc is early.
Okay, so now just to recap.
I'm saying on snapshot.
Whenever I see a document
the database in real time,
I'm going to get its data and
spit it out here and sync it to the state.
Now, this is going to be
a problem because it's saying,
Hey, I don't have any of these properties.
So I'm going to go into the database and
kind of hard code that in.
So if we look at In this, this is RID.
And to go into here into the database,
I'm going to add a document of that and
we're going to say that it's
marked down is hello and
I'm just gonna cheat for
now and converted is going
to be like h one of Hello Save Let
me give this a refresh.
All right.
And so, we have this document right here.
And now when I come back to this and
give it a refresh, look at that.
We have that synchronizing
from the database.
If I refresh, it pops in.
But that's just loaded in if I want to
write in I can call a method called
Set doc and so now that I have
the markdown doc that's synced with
the Parameter ID in this convert function
which just says hey whenever there's a,
The key app method on the text area
instead of setting it straight
to the state I'm going to call set
doc with the markdown document And
then I'm going to pass in data of
converted,and then also the markdown.
And I'm going to delete it from here
because this is one of the most important
concepts and I'm going to actually every
time we run into this concept all day,
I'm going to be talking about
this over and over again.
One of my favorite front of masters
courses is when will sentence does
the JavaScript the hard parts and then it
keeps going always goes to the execution
context with the arms out this is like one
of those moments where every time I do
this I'm gonna to point this out and many
back end systems you're used to saying
let me request out this data okay I have
it now I'm going to display it here let me
make an update Let me wait for it Okay now
I'm going to display it here we don't do
that in the Firebase world what we do is
we have more of a Redux style system where
we dispatch changes it is very rare that
you will ever say I wanna update data.
And I'm gonna wait for it back or
I'm gonna wait to know that
operation has completed.
We're gonna get more into why
that works as we go along.
But right here we're calling set doc,
and we're passing in this data object.
And that's gonna save to FireStore.
And we're not waiting for it to get done.
We're not writing like a weight set doc or
we're not getting back the Document.
What we're doing is we're
triggering on snapshot.
So this is one of the most key things in
all Firebase development you will see this
in Firebase authentication, you will see.
This across the board this is
a unidirectional data flow.
So call a set method call an update,
call delete,
it will trigger this callback right here.
And this is how we keep
things in real time.
This is how we keep things
very snappy in the UI,
is we say I want to make an operation.
I want to set a document I
want to delete a document.
And I will get its
results in this callback.
So now when I save, let's see here
if I say this is working, right?
No errors, so that's great.
And then here we go,
this says this is working right so
now I know that this is working.
And what I want to do now is since
I have this I want to be able to
display the list of these so
I can see that I can write to one and
I want to be able to write
create a whole list so
now in dashboard what I'm going to do
is I'm actually just going to copy and
paste code like I said I'm going to
make a lot of mistakes at first so
I'm going to just copy all of this right
here During a copy all of this I'm going
to copy initialize that all my FireStore
imports my config initializing app and
getting my services as well as
the collection reference because
I'm going to want all these things
in the dashboard Hi I'm just
going to paste them in here and then
what I want to do now is I want to say
okay I want to get all of the documents
and display them to this ui li so
if I just assign it to state DOT markdowns
view will take care of the The rest.
And so we'll do what we did before.
We'll call on snapshot.
We'll pass in the collection.
What is it?
Markdowns calls what I called it.
We get our snapshot callback.
Unlike before I showed before this is for
a collection so
it's gonna have a whole list whereas
documents are a single object and
so what I can say right here is I can
say state.markdowns to bind to that
list I can tap into
the snapshot Call docs,
since it's just a plain old
JavaScript array, I can call map.
And from here, I can say d for data or
for actually stands for document.
That's why you should have
better naming than that.
I can return an object and
I can say that it's ID is d.id.
Because I'm not storing
the ID within the data.
And then I can do this cool
JavaScript trick which I spread
the rest of the data out so
kind of merges it all into one object so
now when I save we We
have ourselves markdown.
So if I click into this one,
this is so cool.
All right, need to put a space there.
So now I have this little Markdown editor.
If I click back, back in,
it's still there.
That's awesome.
So the last thing I want
to do is sign users in.
Yes question.
If that method is unit directional,.
>> How do you manage errors if
you don't get any feedback?
>> That is a great, great question.
For the most part the fire when I'll
be getting an interest in the fire
store section In the FireStore
are most of the SDKs try
to handle a lot of the errors for you.
You most of the rejection errors you are
going to get are due to security roles.
Someone trying to write data to
locations that they are not allowed to.
So it is not actually all that common,
you will need to handle those cuz the SDK
handles that behind the scenes for you.
But if you need to listen,
there is another callback where you can
check the error state inside of here.
This is, if you're used to RX js,
or observables in general,
this follows a whole observer
pattern from here So
if you need to get errors you get
it inside of this callback but
you'll find that that is less
common than you might think